# How to use registries to share components, environments, and models

This project shows how you can use an Azure ML registry to share components, environments, and models with the users in your organization.


## Blog post

To learn more about the code in this repo, check out the accompanying blog post: https://bea.stollnitz.com/blog/aml-registry/


## Azure setup

* You need to have an Azure subscription. You can get a [free subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz) to try it out.
* Create a [resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz).
* Create a new machine learning workspace by following the "Create the workspace" section of the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/quickstart-create-resources?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz). Keep in mind that you'll be creating a "machine learning workspace" Azure resource, not a "workspace" Azure resource, which is entirely different!
* If you have access to GitHub Codespaces, click on the "Code" button in this GitHub repo, select the "Codespaces" tab, and then click on "New codespace."
* Alternatively, if you plan to use your local machine:
  * Install the Azure CLI by following the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz).
  * Install the ML extension to the Azure CLI by following the "Installation" section of the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/how-to-configure-cli?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz).
* In a terminal window, login to Azure by executing `az login --use-device-code`. 
* Set your default subscription by executing `az account set -s "<YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME_OR_ID>"`. You can verify your default subscription by executing `az account show`, or by looking at `~/.azure/azureProfile.json`.
* Set your default resource group and workspace by executing `az configure --defaults group="<YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP>" workspace="<YOUR_WORKSPACE>"`. You can verify your defaults by executing `az configure --list-defaults` or by looking at `~/.azure/config`.
* You can now open the [Azure Machine Learning studio](https://ml.azure.com/?WT.mc_id=aiml-79518-bstollnitz), where you'll be able to see and manage all the machine learning resources we'll be creating.
* Although not essential to run the code in this post, I highly recommend installing the [Azure Machine Learning extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.vscode-ai).


## Project setup

If you have access to GitHub Codespaces, click on the "Code" button in this GitHub repo, select the "Codespaces" tab, and then click on "New codespace."

Alternatively, you can set up your local machine using the following steps.

Install conda environment:

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

Activate conda environment:

```
conda activate aml_registry
```


## Training and inference on your development machine

* Run train.py by pressing F5.
* Run test.py the same way.

You can look at the logs generated by the code in these files with the following command:

```
mlflow ui
```


## Creating a registry

Create the registry with the following command:

```
cd aml_registry/cloud
az ml registry create --file registry.yml
```

Now let's give one other user read access to the contents of our registry. Go to the [Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/), search for "registry-demo" (the name of our registry resource), and click on it. On the left navigation, click on "Access control (IAM)." Click on "Add" in the top menu, then "Add role assignment." Select a role (for example, "Reader"), click "Next," click on "Select members," enter the email of the user you'd like to give read permissions to, and then click on "Review + assign." You can verify your new role assignment under the "Role assignments" tab.


## Register environment and components in the registry

Let's register the training environment in the registry:

```
az ml environment create --file environment-train.yml --registry-name registry-demo
```

Now let's register our two components (which use the environment we just created) also in the registry:

```
az ml component create --file train.yml --registry-name registry-demo
az ml component create --file test.yml --registry-name registry-demo
```


## Train and deploy model in current workspace

Let's train a model in the current workspace, using the components (and environment) from the registry.

```
run_id=$(az ml job create --file pipeline-job.yml --query name -o tsv)
```

Go to the [Azure ML studio](https://ml.azure.com/) and wait for the job to complete. Once it completes, register the output model with the workspace:

```
az ml model create --name model-registry --path "azureml://jobs/$run_id/outputs/model_dir" --type mlflow_model
```

Deploy the job in the current workspace.

```
az ml online-endpoint create -f endpoint-workspace.yml
az ml online-deployment create -f deployment-workspace.yml --all-traffic
```

Invoke the endpoint.

```
az ml online-endpoint invoke --name endpoint-registry-workspace --request-file ../test_data/images_azureml.json
```


## Copy model to the registry and deploy it

If the endpoint works as expected in the current workspace, we can copy the model to the registry.

```
az ml model create --registry-name registry-demo --path azureml://models/model-registry/versions/1 --type mlflow_model
```

Now we can deploy the model from the registry:

```
az ml online-endpoint create -f endpoint-registry.yml
az ml online-deployment create -f deployment-registry.yml --all-traffic
```

Invoke the endpoint.

```
az ml online-endpoint invoke --name endpoint-registry --request-file ../test_data/images_azureml.json
```


## Delete the endpoints

Delete the two endpoints to avoid charges:

```
az ml online-endpoint delete --name endpoint-registry-workspace -y
az ml online-endpoint delete --name endpoint-registry -y
```


## Related resources

* [How to assign a role to an Azure resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-steps)
* [Azure Machine Learning registries overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/how-to-manage-registries?tabs=cli)
* [Hands-on with Azure Machine Learning registries](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/how-to-share-models-pipelines-across-workspaces-with-registries?tabs=cli)
